Dartdoc Generation README Improvements (#34073)
flutter/flutter: dev/snippets/README.md

# Dartdoc Generation

The Flutter API documentation contains code blocks that help provide
context or a good starting point when learning to use any of Flutter's APIs.

To generate these code blocks, Flutter uses dartdoc tools to turn documentation
in the source code into API documentation, as seen on https://api.flutter.dev/.

## Table of Contents

- [Types of code blocks](#types-of-code-blocks)
  - [Sample tool](#sample-tool)
  - [Snippet tool](#snippet-tool)
- [Skeletons](#skeletons)

## Types of code blocks

### Sample Tool

![Code sample image](assets/code_sample.png)

> The code sample tool generates a block containing a description and example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code `sample` tool generates a block containing a description and sample
```

> code. Here is an example of a code sample with a description:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code. Here is an example of the code `sample` tool in use:
```

```dart
/// {@tool sample}
///
/// If the avatar is to have an image, the image should be specified in the
/// [backgroundImage] property:
///
/// ```dart
/// CircleAvatar(
///   backgroundImage: NetworkImage(userAvatarUrl),
/// )
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

> This will generate example code that can be copied to the clipboard and added

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate sample code that can be copied to the clipboard and added
```

to existing applications.

This uses the skeleton for [sample](config/skeletons/sample.html) snippets.

### Snippet Tool

![Code snippet image](assets/code_snippet.png)

> The code snippet tool can expand examples into full Flutter applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code `snippet` tool can expand sample code into full Flutter applications.
```

> These snippets can be directly copied and used to demonstrate how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These sample applications can be directly copied and used to demonstrate the
```

> the API's functionality in a sample application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API's functionality. Here is an example of the code `snippet` tool in use:
```

```dart
/// {@tool snippet --template=stateless_widget_material}
/// This example shows how to make a simple [FloatingActionButton] in a
/// [Scaffold], with a pink [backgroundColor] and a thumbs up [Icon].
///
/// ```dart
/// Widget build(BuildContext context) {
///   return Scaffold(
///     appBar: AppBar(
///       title: Text('Floating Action Button Sample'),
///     ),
///     body: Center(
///       child: Text('Press the button below!')
///     ),
///     floatingActionButton: FloatingActionButton(
///       onPressed: () {
///         // Add your onPressed code here!
///       },
///       child: Icon(Icons.thumb_up),
///       backgroundColor: Colors.pink,
///     ),
///   );
/// }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

This uses the skeleton for [application](config/skeletons/application.html)
snippets.

> Code snippets also allow for quick Flutter app generation using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code `snippets` also allow for quick Flutter app generation using the following command:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

flutter create --sample=[directory.File.sampleNumber] [name_of_project_directory]
```

#### Templates

In order to support showing an entire app when you click on the right tab of

> the code snippet UI, we have to be able to insert the snippet into the template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the code snippet UI, we have to be able to insert the `snippet` into the template
```

///       backgroundColor: Colors.pink,
///     ),
///   );
/// }
/// ```
/// {@end-tool}
```

This uses the skeleton for [application](config/skeletons/application.html)
snippets.

Code `snippets` also allow for quick Flutter app generation using the following command:

```bash
flutter create --sample=[directory.File.sampleNumber] [name_of_project_directory]
```

#### Templates

In order to support showing an entire app when you click on the right tab of
the code snippet UI, we have to be able to insert the `snippet` into the template
and instantiate the right parts.

To do this, there is a [config/templates](config/templates) directory that
contains a list of templates. These templates represent an entire app that the
`snippet` can be placed into, basically a replacement for `lib/main.dart` in a
flutter app package.

For more information about how to create, use, or update templates, see
[config/templates/README.md](config/templates/README.md).

## Skeletons

The code block generation tools process the source input and emit HTML for output,
which dartdoc places back into the documentation. Any options given to the
 `{@tool ...}` directive are passed on verbatim to the tool.

> To render the these examples, the `snippets` tool needs to render the code in a

Reviewer: 'the these'

Author: Fixed it! Also re-ordered the skeleton implementation details to come after the definition of a skeleton, since that makes more sense

> snippet can be placed into, basically a replacement for `lib/main.dart` in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`snippet` can be placed into, basically a replacement for `lib/main.dart` in a
```

flutter app package.

For more information about how to create, use, or update templates, see
[config/templates/README.md](config/templates/README.md).

## Skeletons

The code block generation tools process the source input and emit HTML for output,
which dartdoc places back into the documentation. Any options given to the
 `{@tool ...}` directive are passed on verbatim to the tool.

> To render the these examples, the snippets tool needs to render the code in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render the these examples, the `snippets` tool needs to render the code in a
```

combination of markdown and HTML, using the `{@inject-html}` dartdoc directive.

A skeleton (in relation to this tool, in the [config/skeletons](config/skeletons)
directory) is an HTML template into which the Dart code blocks and descriptions
are interpolated, in order to display it nicely.

There is currently one skeleton for

> [application](config/skeletons/application.html) snippets and one for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`[application](config/skeletons/application.html) snippets` and one for
```

> [sample](config/skeletons/sample.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`[sample](config/skeletons/sample.html)
```

> snippets, but there could be more. It uses mustache notation (e.g. `{{code}}`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
snippets', but there could be more. It uses mustache notation (e.g. `{{code}}`)
```
might need to remove the line preceding line break for `` to work.

[config/templates/README.md](config/templates/README.md).

## Skeletons

The code block generation tools process the source input and emit HTML for output,
which dartdoc places back into the documentation. Any options given to the
 `{@tool ...}` directive are passed on verbatim to the tool.

To render the these examples, the snippets tool needs to render the code in a
combination of markdown and HTML, using the `{@inject-html}` dartdoc directive.

A skeleton (in relation to this tool, in the [config/skeletons](config/skeletons)
directory) is an HTML template into which the Dart code blocks and descriptions
are interpolated, in order to display it nicely.

There is currently one skeleton for
[application](config/skeletons/application.html) snippets and one for
[sample](config/skeletons/sample.html)
snippets, but there could be more. It uses mustache notation (e.g. `{{code}}`)
to mark where the components to be interpolated into the template should go.
It doesn't actually use the mustache package, since the only things that need
substituting are simple strings, but it uses the same syntax.

## Test Doc Generation Workflow

> If you are making changes to an existing code sample or are creating a new code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are making changes to an existing code block or are creating a new code
```

> sample, follow these steps to generate a local copy of the API docs and verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
block, follow these steps to generate a local copy of the API docs and verify
```

> that your code samples are showing up correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that your code blocks are showing up correctly:
```

> 1. Make an update to a code sample or create a new code sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make an update to a code block or create a new code block.
```
